Island
Koh tao

    5 Fun Things to Do in Koh Tao
Besides sunbathing on the beach and scuba diving there is still plenty to do to get through the day. There is not as much to do as on Koh Phi Phi or Koh Phangan, but you can easily enjoy yourself here for a few days without having to scuba dive or visit a different beach every day.

1. Explore Beaches With a Kayak
One of the nicest ways to spend your day is in a kayak. You can easily visit the most beautiful beaches and the isolated snorkeling sites in a kayak. You will find many tour operators at Sairee Beach where you can rent a kayak for half a day or a whole day.You can also rent a half-day kayak to kayak to Koh Nang Yuan and explore the island. It is one of the best things to do on Koh Tao.

2. Rock Climbing
If you are looking for a little more adventure on Koh Tao, we recommend climbing the rocks. This small island has many large boulders that can be climbed perfectly. One of the popular companies to offer rock Climbing in Koh Tao is Goodtime Adventures. They offer courses to everyone, from beginners to experienced climbers. They have more than 70 climbing routes in 3 areas, along with a number of fun spots.

3. Day Trip to Koh Nangyuan
Koh Nangyuan is not really part of Koh Tao, but a small neighboring island. The island itself actually consists of three smaller islands connected by a natural sandbar.A day trip to this island is the most popular activity on Koh Tao and if you are active on social media you will undoubtedly recognize the pictures. Koh Nangyuan is famous for the turquoise water, the beautiful white sandy beaches, and the snorkeling at the colorful coral. When you are on the island, you can climb to the viewpoint for a perfect picture.

4. Experience a Sunset
Sairee Beach is the best place to watch the sun go down. Grab a beer, plop down on the beach and watch the sun turn the sky into an orange-pink color. A great place to watch the sun go down is at the Lotus Bar. This is the familiar place with the vertical palm tree where everyone seems to be taking a photo. This is a must-do on Koh Tao!

5. Climb to One of the Viewpoints
John Suwan Viewpoint
In the south of Koh Tao, you will find the John Suwan Viewpoint. With good weather, you will have a view to the north, with a view of Chalok Baan Khao Bay, Haad Tien Beach and the hilly interior of the island. It is named after the two friends who discovered the view while looking for a place to build a house.

Scuba Diving in Koh Tao
On Koh Tao you can scuba dive very well; it is what this island is known for. It is perfect for beginners because of the crystal clear and shallow water. In addition, the conditions here are so optimal that you can scuba dive all year long on Koh Tao. The best scuba diving spots are around 20 kilometers from the island. You will encounter everything under water; from tropical fish to colorful coral and from stingrays to barracudas. On the island, you will find more than 40 scuba diving schools where you can complete all PADI courses or simply book some separate scuba diving lessons.

Prices for Scuba Diving
Due to the enormous competition, the prices for a scuba diving lesson or course on Koh Tao are very low. Of course, price does not mean everything and also depend on the instructor you request, but count on the following prices:

PADI (Open Water Diver) ➜ 9,800 Baht, around US$314.
SSi (Open Water Diver) ➜ 9,000 Baht, around US$288.
Advanced Open Water ➜ 8,500 Baht, around US$272.
Divemaster ➜ 25,000 Baht, around US$801.

Snorkeling and Free Diving in Koh Tao
If you are not into scuba diving, you can, of course, also go snorkeling. You can book different snorkeling trips to places in the Koh Tao area. You will have to pay around 100 to 200 Baht (US$3.20 to $6.40). Booking a tour is usually not necessary. With your rented snorkel set you can just walk into the water, swim a bit, and put your head under water, easy!

Freediving
Freediving is on the rise on Koh Tao. Please note that free diving is quite risky. So try taking a lesson or go with someone experienced before you try something yourself. You can look for a lesson at Apnea Total. An introductory lesson of one day will cost you around 3,000 Baht (US$96).

How to Get to Koh Tao
The boat is the only way to get to Koh Tao. Most boats sail the route between the mainland (Chumphon) and Koh Tao, Koh Phangan, and Koh Samui.

From Koh Phangan to Koh Tao
Boats from / to Koh Phangan go 3 times a day at 6:00 a.m., 9:30 a.m., and 3:00 p.m. It costs between 500 and 600 Baht (US$16 to $19.20). You will usually be picked up from your accommodation.

From Koh Samui to Koh Tao
Boats from / to Koh Samui go twice a day. It will cost you around 600 Baht (US$19.20) and they will leave at 9:30 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. The boat usually sails (if not always) via Koh Phangan. So make sure you step out on the right island!

If you’re interested in booking your tickets to these islands online we recommend using 12GoAsia. Here, you can easily find all routes and prices to any place you want to go to in Thailand. Check here to find the routes and prices from Bangkok to Koh Tao.



Koh Lanta
Koh Lanta may not have snow-white beaches such as the nearby Koh Phi Phi, but it does have another important feature and that is that the beaches are much quieter here. Koh Lanta is located near Krabi in the Andaman Sea, which guarantees beautiful photos. The largest island of the 50-island archipelago offers the longest beaches of all and offers enough entertainment for every type of traveler.

5 Fun Things to Do on Koh Lanta

Explore the Underwater World
Scuba diving and snorkeling are some of the best ways to spend your day here. Koh Lanta is known as the paradise for divers and snorkelers, especially in the south of the island. The sea is clear and the water is always nice and warm, which makes it ideal to discover the beautiful underwater world. You can rent snorkel gear anywhere on the island and dive into the water. Usually, you rent these for around US $6 a day. You can rent the gear at any ho(s)tel. You can also book a diving lesson at one of the many diving schools on the island.

Relaxing at Sunshine Hill Viewpoint
Along the coast of the island, you will find many cafes that are built against or on a cliff. Many of these will give you a beautiful view of the ocean. Every time we saw a cafe with a view, we immediately stopped to relax with fresh fruit juice or delicious coffee. You shoot a few photos, get on the scooter and ride to the next one! Sunshine Hill Viewpoint was our favorite on Koh Lanta because the water had great colors. An ideal place to do nothing at all.

Watch the Sunset on a Quiet Beach
What could be better than sleeping on a tropical island, enjoying the beautiful weather, snorkeling a little during the day and seeing the sky turn orange in the evening during an impressive sunset? We are absolutely beach people and always try to catch a sunset; it doesn’t matter where we are. On Koh Lanta, you can see very beautiful sunsets. And the great thing is that you don’t have to look far because there is always a beautiful beach nearby. Buy a beer, drive to a deserted beach and watch the sun go down. You will not be disappointed.

Explore Koh Lanta National Park
The National Park is located on the southernmost tip of the island and has a beautiful landscape. A walk through the park takes about 1.5 hours and takes you past different types of trees, plants, and of course many monkeys. The beaches on either side of the lighthouse are beautiful. There are beautiful paths that run along coconut palm trees. You can easily walk a whole day here. Rent a scooter and plan a day at the National Park.

Visit the Emerald Cave
Another unique place to visit is the Emerald Cave, only accessible by boat. The entrance is in emerald green water. It’s pretty weird because you “have to” swim inside and swimming into a dark hole is not something you do every day. It is only a two or three-minute swim. You need a flashlight to see something (incl. in the tour). Once you have swum into the cave you will come to a small lagoon and beach surrounded by rocky cliffs. Magnificent

How to Get to Koh Lanta
There are really countless possibilities to get here. Most will come via Krabi, Phuket or Koh Phi Phi. At all these places you can book tickets to Koh Lanta at any hotel or tour operator.

 

From Koh Phi Phi to Koh Lanta
Boats between Koh Phi Phi and Koh Lanta only sail between October and April. They leave between 8 a.m. and 1 p.m. The boat trip takes only 1.5 hours and costs you around 250 baht (US $8.10). If you book a speedboat you pay at least 700 baht (US $23).

From Krabi to Koh Lanta
Boats depart from Krabi’s Khlong Chilat pier between 8:30 AM and 1:30 PM. Cost for the crossing is 400 baht (US $13) and it takes about 2 hours.

From Phuket to Koh Lanta
Several boats depart from Phuket each day to travel between Phuket, Koh Phi Phi, and Koh Lanta. A boat trip from Phuket to Lanta costs around 700 baht (US $23).

Doi Inthanon
Doi Inthanon is a beautiful national park in the north of Thailand, close to Chiang Mai. In addition to impressive trekking, waterfalls and two stupas to honor the king and queen, the Doi Inthanon National Park also houses the highest mountain in Thailand. The Doi Inthanon is around 2,500 meters high, giving you a wonderful view of the surrounding region.

Doi Inthanon; A Wonderful Get-Away
The park is close to Chiang Mai making it an ideal day trip for both locals and travelers. The Doi Inthanon park is about 385 square miles in size and is, therefore, about the same size as Dallas. Travelers will climb to the top to escape the heat, although their clothes usually look a lot less thick than the locals’ clothes. If you get all the way to the top you will come across a temple on the way that was built for one of the last Lanna kings, King Inthawichayanon. When you have passed this point you immediately understand why people like to come to the Doi Inthanon National Park.
 
 What to Do in Doi Inthanon
 1. Visit Many Waterfalls
Doi Inthanonoi Inthanon National Park is home to beautiful waterfalls (about 8 of them) and views. The largest and most famous is the Nam Tok Mae Klang. This one is also the easiest to reach. In addition to this largest waterfall, you also have the smaller Nam Tok Wachiratan and the Nam Tok Siriphum that are worth visiting.

2. Go For a Walk
The park is ideal for beautiful walks. The nicest walk is the one to the top where you pass a beautiful temple along the way. The views along the way are really beautiful.It is a nice day trip from Chiang Mai so you don’t have to waste a lot of time.

Best Time to Visit the Doi Inthanon National Park
If you want to enjoy the best views, it is best to come around the dry season, which runs from November to February. It will be a bit cooler and drier, but the skies are clearer. However, do not expect miracles because it is more often foggy than clear at the top. You may not have such a spectacular view; the forests, the top of the mountain, and the fog will provide a mysterious view on their own.

